---
title: "Cover Letter"
author: "Evangeline Reynolds"
date: "12/15/2021"
output: pdf_document
---

Dear members of the search committee,

It is a pleasure to submit application materials for the teaching professor position in the Department of Statistics.  I believe that my pedagogical vision aligns with that of the department to 'diversify and grow' the curriculum, as my work focuses on new techniques and statistical packages that may help the statistical classroom become an even more engaging and welcoming environment to students with diverse backgrounds. Please see my teaching statement for further exposition on teaching values and philosophy.

I currently work as a data manager and assistant professor at the US Military Academy at West Point. Most of my work focuses on data exploration and communication. In addition, I'm interested in using and developing tools that document and communicate analyst workflow to allow for greater transparency and efficient, how-to knowledge transfer.  My PhD is from the University of Illinois, where [my dissertation](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/bitstream/handle/2142/92939/REYNOLDS-DISSERTATION-2016.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y) won 2018 Burkholder Award for Best Dissertation in the Political Science department of the University of Illinois.

I have extensive experience in data analysis and teaching data science. At West Point I work analyses and produce data products that inform academic policy. At the Korbel School of International Studies at Denver, I was one of two professors exclusively focused on teaching quantitative methodology; there I designed a data visualization course for the masters students. At the Technical University in Dresden, in 2018, I taught an undergraduate course on data science and statistical analysis in the International Relations department. As a graduate student, I worked as a statistics consultant at the Applied Technologies of the Arts and Science (ATLAS) at the University of Illinois from 2013-2015 and I also served "Methods TA" in Political Science in the 2015-2016 academic year at the University of Illinois, providing assistance and expertise both to undergraduate and graduate students.

I would be suited to teach a number of courses in your department.  My teaching experience in data science and analytic professional work make me well suited to teach STAT 180 Introduction to Data Science, STAT 503 Practical Methods for Data Analysis.  Due to my training as a Political Science PhD I would also be pleased to teach STAT 221 Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences, STAT 320 Evaluating Social Science Evidence, and STAT 321 Data Science and Statistics for Social Sciences.  Furthermore, my experience building R packages gives me the experience needed to teach STAT 302 Statistical Computing.

Thank you again for your review of my materials and please be in touch should you have questions regarding my profile.

Kind regards,

Evangeline Reynolds
