---
title: "Diversity and Inclusion Statement"
author: "Evangeline Reynolds"
date: "12/15/2021"
output: pdf_document
---

I believe that as educators, we must foster an environment for diversity and inclusion.  First, the academy should value fairness and equity.  But additionally, diversity and inclusion should be prized because  of the potential to strengthens work as more unique, orthogonal viewpoints are brought to problems.  The more insights, tools, and techniques we teachers can be efficiently delivered to wider sets of potential problem solvers, the better positioned we as a society will be at solving problems.  

For example, making tools more accessible to non-native English speakers should be a concern for educators. In the computational and code world, English dominates. But I am hopeful that some of my work has the potential to help with accessibility; I'm working on code and output side-by-side presentation.  Thus, when a term is named in one of these side-by-side presentations, a rug plot for example, the depiction appears alongside.  If the English work 'rug' is not know, this is not a hindrance to the consumer. The meaning can be ascertained from the output.

In general, I'd consider myself a person that seeks out and celebrates cultural diversity.  At the University of Denver, I organizes several foreign language meetups (Portuguese and German), was involved with the Students for Africa, and sang with The Spirituals Project (celebrating the traditional songs coming out of slavery in the United States) as a hobby.

Gender diversity is also an area of concern for me --- and particularly the issue of women in tech and programming. As a woman passionate about computation, I recognize that I have a unique opportunity to send a message to students and others around me that women have a lot to offer, say, and do in computation. Given this, I give special attention to female luminaries and voices in my courses. I also co-founded the RLadies-Denver group, a local chapter of the global organization that promotes gender diversity among users of the statistical programming language, R. At West Point, I've been pleased that my first independent study advisees are female cadets at an institution were gender imbalance still exists.  

At University fo Washington, I would anticipate this trajectory of encouraging more women in computational work and celebrating diverse backgrounds.